Imagine you just learned that you had received an amazing inheritance, something very special
that had been in your family for many years, and the gift is very valuable, how would you feel?
Actually, all of us, everyone listening to this program have received such an inheritance.
It's something that's been passed down from generation to generation for thousands of years.
What is it?
It's God's Word, the Bible.
Through this precious gift, we feel Jehovah's love in what ways?
Let's consider three.
We feel it when we learn how Jehovah has preserved his Word for thousands of years so that we'd have it today.
We feel it in the message it conveys from our loving Heavenly Father.
And we feel it when we see how our lives are improved when we apply its teachings.
Let's talk about the first.
Jehovah's love is felt in the way that he preserved his Word.
The Bible was written so long ago on perishable materials, and yet we have it today.
We have it on our phones and tablets, and we have printed copies.
Consider what a miracle it is that Jehovah had the Bible written down, hand copied for centuries,
and yet it was accurately preserved until our day.
How was the Bible written?
In a miraculous way.
2 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 16 clearly states,
All Scripture is inspired of God and beneficial.
Yes, Jehovah used his Holy Spirit to convey his thoughts to the minds and hearts of faithful men.
Some 40 writers were used.
1600 years passed until the Bible was completed in about the year 98 CE.
That's more than 1,900 years ago.
So how is it that we have the Bible today?
It had to be hand copied.
Through the centuries, scribes made copies of the text.
For example, the Maserites, a group of meticulous Jewish scholars and copyists,
literally counted the number of words and even the number of letters.
Why?
To make sure that they copied the text accurately, they wanted no errors to be introduced.
Thankfully, many ancient Bible manuscripts have survived until today.
Perhaps some 6,000 manuscripts of the Hebrew Scriptures and some 5,000 of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
By the 15th century, the Bible had been hand copied for hundreds of years.
But now, that was about to change.
Let me show you what happened using a few examples from our Bible collection in Warwick, New York.
This is what's often called a Paris Bible.
It was completed in France during the latter part of the 13th century.
That is, somewhere between the years 1250 and 1300.
It's a complete Bible copied by hand.
Look at how beautiful it is.
Imagine the work involved, a scribe sitting at a table, day after day, carefully copying,
so that someone could have a Bible like this.
Of course, few people would ever have been able to own a precious hand copied Bible like this one.
But Jehovah had something better in mind.
So, in the 15th century, a man named Johannes Gutenberg came up with an amazing idea.
In about the year 1455, Gutenberg produced the first printed Bible.
He printed only about 180 copies.
That doesn't sound like a lot today, does it?
But remember, up until that time, every Bible had been hand copied.
So this was something truly amazing.
Here's an original page from one of those 180 Bibles printed by Gutenberg.
It's beautiful, isn't it?
But this was just the beginning.
In time, Gutenberg's invention would allow for thousands of copies of the Bible to be printed in a relatively short period of time.
In the years that followed, printing presses gradually were set up in various cities in Europe.
What were they able to produce?
In 1475, Bernard Rieshel produced this Bible in Basel, Switzerland.
Look at the size of it, and look at the beautiful printing.
It's amazing what those early printers were able to produce.
Although the Bible was now being printed, there was still a problem.
What was it?
Few people would ever have been able to afford a Bible like this.
Even though it was printed, it was still very expensive.
This Bible was probably produced for a church, or for someone who was very wealthy.
But less than 20 years later, there was another exciting development.
This is the Biblia Integra, often called the Poor Man's Bible.
It was printed in Switzerland in the year 1491.
What do you notice about it?
It's very small.
It's thought to be the first small-sized printed Bible.
The man who produced this Bible had a new idea.
He produced this Bible to appeal to common churchgoers.
It wasn't a Bible for a library, or a church.
It was for personal use, something that a person could own, and carry with him, and read at any time.
Why was this development so important?
Because in the next few decades, the Bible would be translated from the original languages,
and printed in the vernacular, or common languages, of people across Europe.
For the first time, it would be possible for people to have a personal copy of the Bible in their own language.
These significant developments in Bible production give us reason to believe that our loving father, Jehovah, was involved.
He not only had preserved the Bible, but now he was ensuring that his gift would be made available to all people.
Now, let's return to the studio.
Of course, God's enemies did not want people to have Jehovah's precious gift.
Thus, it's not surprising that many people have actively worked to prevent others from having the Bible.
One scholar, Albert Barnes, described it this way.
No book has excited so much opposition as this, but it has survived every attack which power, talent, and eloquence have ever made on it.
No army ever survived so many battles as the Bible.
Humans alone could never have preserved the Bible in the face of such strong opposition.
It's a miracle that we have it today.
Clearly, we feel the love of Jehovah when we see how he's preserved the Bible and made this precious gift available to all.
The Bible's message is a second way that we feel Jehovah's love.
The Bible teaches us things that we cannot learn anywhere else.
Through, without the Bible, we could understand that there is a creator and we could learn about his qualities from the things he's made.
But the Bible teaches us so much more.
In it, Jehovah tells us his own personal name, the purpose of life, and what the future holds.
These are things that we'd expect a loving father to share with his beloved children.
Jehovah invites us to have a close relationship with him, what a tender and loving father.
The practical guidance for life that the Bible contains is a third way that we feel Jehovah's love.
It's a book from the creator that instructs us how to live a happy and satisfying life.
It's like our owner's manual from the creator himself and how much we need it.
Jesus saw how much people needed that guidance.
Matthew 9.36 says,
On seeing the crowds, he felt pity for them because they were skinned and thrown about like sheep without a shepherd.
That's true today also.
People are so confused and lost.
They don't know what to do.
They're often guided simply by their own thinking and desires.
As a result, people end up in awful situations.
We need reliable guidance to show us what's right and what's wrong and to help us find the way to happiness.
And Jehovah has provided all of that in his precious gift, the Bible.
Romans 15 verse 4 says,
For all the things that were written beforehand were written for our instruction
so that through our endurance and through the comfort from the scriptures, we might have hope.
Even as our circumstances change, the Bible continues to be our manual for life.
Whether young or old, single or married, the guidance in God's word always applies.
It always works.
As we reflect on all the ways that the Bible is a unique gift, what do we see or feel?
We feel the tremendous love that Jehovah has for us in giving us this gift.
He's made sure that all the information we need is inside it, and he helps us to apply it in our life.
With what result?
2 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 16 and 17 says,
All scripture is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching, for reproving, for setting things straight,
for disciplining in righteousness, so that the man of God may be fully competent,
completely equipped for every good work.
What have we learned in this brief discussion?
Everything about the Bible reflects Jehovah's love.
The miraculous way he preserved it.
It's message from a loving Father and its practical guidance on how to live.
Inheriting a precious gift does not guarantee that we will appreciate it.
Likewise, simply having a Bible does not mean that we'll benefit from it.
To benefit, we need to read His Word, the manual for life, every day.
As we read and study the Bible, we feel the great love of its author, our wonderful God, Jehovah.
And the more we feel His love, the more we're moved to do what He wants us to do.
That includes helping others to receive and benefit from this precious gift.
In this way, we can help as many as possible to experience, yes, to really feel the love of God through the Bible.